Michael Shannon: Alright, welcome back from break everybody we're gonna finish up our final hour of our day two.
Michael Shannon: of our CIS SP boot camp with Mike and Dave.
Michael Shannon: sounds like a morning radio show the Mike and Dave show.
Michael Shannon: And we're going to continue our practical cryptography here, looking at digital signatures, a form of electronic signature that had the goal.
Michael Shannon: To either augment or replace physical handwritten signatures, and in many countries, a digital signature is considered just as valid as a written signature.
Michael Shannon: So let's talk about how you create or how you do the digitally signing process now one thing to remember about digital signatures.
Michael Shannon: kind of find this lot, I want to be on there we go is that this is not confidentiality.
Michael Shannon: Okay, so, for example, let's say I have something like a purchase order or maybe something is a contract or an agreement, maybe it's an API whatever this goes to a cryptographic hash.
Michael Shannon: It says sha one on the diagram, but this is a little bit older diagram so let's say, we would like to gravitate towards shot to Okay, and then it generates that let's say a shot to 56 it'll be a 256 bit.
Michael Shannon: fingerprint or digest right so that's the result.
Michael Shannon: That is what is quote signed or basically encrypted with the private key so the sender generates an RSA key pair Okay, or it could be elliptic curve dsa also commonly use, but that.
Michael Shannon: algorithm is what is used to encrypt the fingerprint and so obviously when you encrypt it.
Michael Shannon: you're going to have a different result and that's what gets attached or appended to the original transactions.
Michael Shannon: purchase order and so on the other side, you know they're going to have the public key and you know this key.
Michael Shannon: It can either be obtained through some handshake to an out of band method, but usually this public key of the sender is in a certificate.
Michael Shannon: Okay, in a certificate and both parties are relying upon a trusted third party right so remember this is integrity, this is origin authentication.
Michael Shannon: And it's non repudiation right, so this sender cannot come back at a later time and say.
Michael Shannon: I didn't sign that digital contract I didn't do that digital agreement I didn't send or receive that money.
Michael Shannon: because their private key was used and they're responsible for their private key okay so but what's not happening here is confidentiality, if you want that, then you would send it through some secure channel.
Michael Shannon: Transport layer security an IP SEC vpn something like that okay now.
Michael Shannon: lots of things are digitally signed okay here we're talking about you know, a purchase order or whatever, but one of the best practices to be aware of, on the exam is, we would like to digitally sign.
Michael Shannon: All of these things that we get from vendors, or whatever you get an ISO image, you get a device driver you download something it's digitally sign, so you get those you get those high degree of competence of integrity origin authentication non repudiation.
Michael Shannon: A digital certificate is one of those things it's also commonly digitally signed Okay, and so a certificate, you know just has fields, it has metadata.
Michael Shannon: and basically a digital certificate has information in it that ties that certificate and their public key to some entity, it could be a person, it could be an organization, it could be a device like a router or a firewall Okay, it could be some service running.
Michael Shannon: The certificates going to have and usually we use the X 509 version three certificate, so in that it'll have.
Michael Shannon: Some information about who the party is right, the subject we called it now that field historically it's called the subject field but we don't really use that field anymore Okay, so in the in the 509 certificate we use a field called subject alternative name.
Michael Shannon: Okay i'm just going to do this subject alternate here's an i'll tell you the main reason why.
Michael Shannon: The main reason why we use the subject alternative name field is so that you can put an IP version six address in there, instead of some domain name.
Michael Shannon: that's really why because eventually everything's going to be identified into end with IP version six.
Michael Shannon: So we use that field so that's something about the entity, possibly their ipv6 address also they're going to have.
Michael Shannon: generated some there's some algorithms that are going to be used for what was the algorithm that was used to generate their key pair right.
Michael Shannon: Because the public key is going to be in there, what algorithm that I use it, I use RSA or elliptic curve dsa Okay, I need to know that algorithm and that certificate.
Michael Shannon: also need to know what was used to sign that digital certificate, so if we go back to this diagram right what we want to know in this say this is a certificate down and not a purchase order right, well, we want to know a couple of things in the certificate, ultimately, you know what.
Michael Shannon: Did you use to sign it, or what was the algorithm used to create the hash and what was used to digitally sign it okay and we're going to talk about who digitally signs it in a minute it's usually the entity that that.
Michael Shannon: offers or gives that digital certificate to the entity, because the entity, probably went through some enrollment process with some authority.
Michael Shannon: And that authority digitally signed it OK, so the public key the algorithms that are used the digital signature.
Michael Shannon: Other metadata, for example, the certificate will have a serial number in there and that serial number, which is a unique it's not really even a serial number anymore okay.
Michael Shannon: that's not that's not a good name for it, the reason the reason why it's still called serial number is because early on those numbers were issued in series.
Michael Shannon: But we don't do that anymore, the number is a pseudo it's a very large pseudo random number because.
Michael Shannon: By by issuing them in series that was kind of a vulnerability, you know you could you could determine like the next serial number, so we don't do that anymore, but that serial number is super important.
Michael Shannon: Because it's mapped to that public key and that subject let's say in a domain name or an ipv6 address right and that serial numbers important because.
Michael Shannon: That is the thing that we may have to say, this is not valid anymore and we're going to let everybody know.
Michael Shannon: This particular serial number is not valid, you cannot trust somebody using this public key or this certificate yeah pseudo random number, not a purely random number purely random generated numbers are kind of difficult to create pseudo random okay.
Michael Shannon: Random enough.
Michael Shannon: Alright, so.
Michael Shannon: Often, what we use in the signing process is elliptic curve cryptography we've already talked about that, and because we have you know mobile devices and phones and iot and other things that are going to have certificates on them.
Michael Shannon: it's nice to use the elliptic curve cryptography because it even says here a 256 elliptic curve key is equivalent to a 3072.
Michael Shannon: legacy or normal key.
Michael Shannon: that's pretty good to know.
Michael Shannon: Sorry, whenever I have my whenever I use my annotation tools, I can't move my slides forward okay so other topics.
Michael Shannon: Now we're going to revisit digital signatures and digital certificates in a little bit when we talk about public key infrastructure but there's some other topics that are on the exam.
Michael Shannon: We talked about cryptographers and crypt analysis and this is all under the umbrella will be called cryptology the study of crypto systems, the study of ciphers.
Michael Shannon: And it's like a seesaw where sometimes the cryptographers are ahead and sometimes the analyst or ahead by just constant battle and, by the way, this is not necessarily adversarial.
Michael Shannon: We need crypt analysis experts, because we need to test our crypto systems, we need to put them through rigorous brute force.
Michael Shannon: tests and attacks to determine the trustworthiness so it's like not it's not always an adversarial thing.
Michael Shannon: quantum computing we hear about quantum computing and we immediately think Oh, this is an adversarial.
Michael Shannon: type of technology, that the only goal of quantum computing is to crack crypto systems well that's just not true, is it possible.
Michael Shannon: Is it probable eventually but just as you have quantum computing you have what's called post quantum where the cryptographers are already thinking about things to stay ahead of the quantum computers.
Michael Shannon: But what makes quantum computing get its power is the fact that it uses what's called superposition whereas you know, a normal server or a PC or a 64 bit operating system is going to.
Michael Shannon: operate or it's going to process 64 bits at a time which is still pretty good it's 64 zeros and ones at a time, a quantum computer is relying on the fact that it uses cubits so it can express multiple numerous.
Michael Shannon: combinations of one and zero at the same time, and that superposition is what gives it its power and so quantum computing is going to lead to you know, obviously.
Michael Shannon: Doing analytics much faster high performance computing is going to you know empower artificial intelligence and all those things.
Michael Shannon: But it can again potentially be used to crack crypto systems and that's not good, so the cryptographers are now involved in post quantum cryptography which is going to be, you know larger key spaces right larger symmetric key sizes and 512 larger a symmetric key sizes than 4096.
Michael Shannon: crypto systems use trap door functions basically it's easy to compute compute in one direction but difficult and the opposite like a cryptographic hash is a form of trap door function.
Michael Shannon: So developing more complex trap door functions lattice base cryptography.
Michael Shannon: These are also showing resistance, these are developed for resistance to quantum computing defeat helmet right, so we went from defeat hellman key exchange to elliptic curve defeat hellman and now we're getting past that so this final bullet point.
Michael Shannon: super singular I saw Jimmy.
Michael Shannon: That is actually the next generation of defeat hellman ephemeral that already working on super singular I saw Jimmy I downloaded the White Paper on it and i'm good at math.
Michael Shannon: I was raised by a algebra teacher.
Michael Shannon: But man it just it blew my mind okay i'm not a mathematician, but it was way way above my pay grade but let's just say.
Michael Shannon: A mechanism for key exchange that has the goal of meeting the challenges of quantum computing okay.
Michael Shannon: Now we mentioned earlier, we have data at the very beginning, we have data in transit.
Michael Shannon: We have data at rest and we have data in use, so one of the primary methods to protect data and use and actually beyond that, to allow multiple parties.
Michael Shannon: To use encrypted data in us is homomorphic encryption, as a matter of fact aws Amazon web services has a whole team of cryptographers they're they're constantly working on post quantum solutions and they have a whole team and they're you know.
Michael Shannon: solutions for.
Michael Shannon: Protecting data in use, for example, data in reddest clusters, they it's not it's not really a fancy word it's just called cryptographic computing, I guess, they were able to you know.
Michael Shannon: crypto it doesn't sound like a phrase that they should be able to like use it's very generic but that's what their initiative is called.
Michael Shannon: And like I said, not only are they using homomorphic encryption to encrypt data in use so but, while being processed, it remains encrypted and uses algebraic operations advanced algebraic operations on the ciphertext it's an asymmetric crypto system.
Michael Shannon: But they also have other mechanisms that don't use cryptography special types of enclaves kind of similar to like the way the iPhone has the secure operating system inside of the ios the SEC POs the secure enclave kind of that kind of mentality, but in the cloud.
Michael Shannon: So.
Michael Shannon: One of the main weaknesses, we think about you know crypt analysis, you know how do we find vulnerabilities and crypto systems for the most part.
Michael Shannon: When we're using newer emerging crypto systems we're just not yet worried about brute force attacks, because the computing power and the time is not there yet, and by the time the quantum computers get rolling, we will have much larger key spaces and other mechanisms.
Michael Shannon: Most of the attacks of the of the analysis is leveraging poor implementation.
Michael Shannon: Of a algorithm or a mechanism or poor key management just using a symmetric key for too long, of a time a week a symmetric key are using md five things like that.
Michael Shannon: So key management is important that you have and, by the way, if you do this on site, most likely, this will be done is key, imagine we done with a hardware security module and hsm.
Michael Shannon: Okay, all of these aspects of key management or you'll be using cloud hsm which is basically you're going to be using an abstracted hsa of.
Michael Shannon: hardware security models that the cloud provider now whether you're able to do that or not, it depends on your governance some organizations.
Michael Shannon: Like like I don't know I don't even know if it's like pci DSS don't quote me on this, but some mandates if the auditors are coming to do an audit your hardware security modules must be on premises or in your data Center with physical security.
Michael Shannon: Other types of organizations who aren't don't have those requirements regulations can use cloud based hsm so the cloud is kind of their you know their repository.
Michael Shannon: Another concept that's been around for a while, is taking a relatively weak key and stretching it there's algorithms like be crypt or BP BP BP caveat to that will go through these elaborate processes to stretch the original key so.
Michael Shannon: Like your original key is this is my password it will stretch into 128 bit.
Michael Shannon: Very you know.
Michael Shannon: Strong alphanumeric key without you having to even worry about it sometimes when you download those password managers that you might be running on your.
Michael Shannon: workstation or your laptop like last pass or.
Michael Shannon: Oh there's a bunch of them where you create a master password and you register everything with the with the manager and you just put in one master password it's like a single sign on to all of your web mail accounts and whatever.
Michael Shannon: Right often those tools will take your original master password and stretch it into something at least 128 bits, in fact, when we talk about wireless security.
Michael Shannon: wpa three it's personal mode actually does that it's a protocol called Sae simultaneous authentication of equals.
Michael Shannon: So with wpa three you're at you know your access keys, or you know, whatever keys you use your you know your your wireless password can be simple.
Michael Shannon: And in the the algorithm will stretch it for you, so you can you can use easy to remember you know wireless passwords like your dog's name your cat's name things like that that's part of wpa three.
Michael Shannon: And I mentioned hardware security modules different companies provide these.
Michael Shannon: crypto processing modules they have a lot, they have a wide variety of use cases ssl accelerators storing keys private keys public keys symmetric keys generating rotating they do a wide variety of things they're often in a one or two rack unit.
Michael Shannon: box and they they would be tamper resistant so like if you, you know, if you like, forced open the box, it would zero eyes everything inside of it okay.
Michael Shannon: So these are very common as a matter of fact, a key management service a cloud based key management service it's basically under the hood is just fleets of virtualized hardware security modules running in a cluster.
Michael Shannon: Okay.
Michael Shannon: remember how I mentioned earlier, that you know.
Michael Shannon: It would be nice if somebody is getting somebody else's public key whether they're going to they want confidentiality, or whether they went orange i'm sorry, whether they want integrity or origin authentication you know if somebody says, I used my private key.
Michael Shannon: You have to kind of just trust that that private key is not compromised.
Michael Shannon: So a mechanism to.
Michael Shannon: build some trust.
Michael Shannon: began with a guy named Philip Zimmerman.
Michael Shannon: and fill up a zoom room was kind of like a defeat and hellman he kind of had his run in with the NSA because he created a protocol.
Michael Shannon: called pretty good privacy and it was built on the this web of trust on the Internet, so if one party trust let's say if Alice trusted Chris and Bob trusted Chris then Alice could trust Bob and they could have trusted primary and secondary trust and they could build a web of trust.
Michael Shannon: Sebastian a a trusted platform module is a form.
Michael Shannon: it's a you can consider it a smaller form factor of what hsm can do hf Sam full blown like H SMS can do a lot more, because the tpm is specific to the system board of the motherboard usually the hardware, but yeah it does as a lot of the same purposes.
Michael Shannon: Okay, of what it stores and and some of the use case yeah.
Michael Shannon: You can even have a trusted platform module or you can even have these kind of things running on like a on an sd card now.
Michael Shannon: I forgot, where I was OK so pk.
Michael Shannon: So Zimmerman introduced this concept of a web of trust in a trusted in reducer so people could start doing like secure email on the World Wide Web, for example.
Michael Shannon: So public key infrastructure, which is an eXtensible architecture which means you can add functionality to it, it really solves two problems.
Michael Shannon: One problem is I need a I need a scalable secure way to distribute my public key to a lot of different potential participants.
Michael Shannon: People that I want to have secure communications or transactions or activities with potentially a lot of people or systems on an ongoing basis, so I need something massively scalable globally scalable and secure and so that we can have a trusted third party.
Michael Shannon: That pretty much kind of backs up your public and private key because, in fact, in some situations, the the entity, like the user.
Michael Shannon: will generate the key pair but sometimes the trusted introduce are the trusted third party, the security.
Michael Shannon: authority, they can actually generate the key pair on your behalf for you and put it in your identity certificate, so you don't even have to generate the key pair.
Michael Shannon: Often the CA will do it for you put it in your certificate and they'll digitally digitally sign it so that's the first goal is to have this global way to really exchange public keys, so I can do, what I want to do.
Michael Shannon: The second main reason for a peek Ai is how does user a and user see and user D and on and on and on how do they find out if that private key and public key which is associated with a entity and a serial number is no longer valid because a couple of the other fields in the certificate.
Michael Shannon: says this certificate is not valid before this date and time and it's not valid after this date and time usually a year, two years, three years, five years but there's a validity period that's two fields that's also in that certificate well if the if it's no longer valid.
Michael Shannon: And by the way, that validity thing can actually be, it is no longer valid or it can happen when devices that are interacting with the certificates their time clocks get screwed up.
Michael Shannon: So that's why like network time protocol that we often use, we need to use network time protocol version three because version three has confidentiality integrity in origin authentication of the communication between the client and server of NTP because if you can hack.
Michael Shannon: someone's network time protocol.
Michael Shannon: And you can let's say roll back the date and time you can then catastrophic Lee affect all of their certificates.
Michael Shannon: Because they're no longer valid.
Michael Shannon: According to the devices that are processing, so this kind of goes hand in hand with protecting your network time protocol servers and the atomic clocks they connect to.
Michael Shannon: So, but there's other reasons, you know you can have an employee who loses their mobile device, or they lose their laptop or it gets stolen.
Michael Shannon: or they leave the company and as part of the D provisioning or off boarding process you let the CA know this certificate is no longer valid so a pk Ai has to have some way to revoke.
Michael Shannon: That certificates serial number and let everybody know.
Michael Shannon: that's really when it gets right down to the two main reasons that we use pk I either an enterprise pk Ai which you can have that's just for the users and devices in your campus.
Michael Shannon: Or you could be using a trusted third party on the Internet komodo GEO trust digital jit digit CERT thought the list goes on and on.
Michael Shannon: Okay.
Michael Shannon: So here's what happens the certificate authority, by the way, there is no higher authority.
Michael Shannon: If we look at whether it's you know, on the Internet, so their certificate, they have an identity certificates and they have a key pair but there's a self signed.
Michael Shannon: Now what that also means is there's a web of trust between these ca's.
Michael Shannon: And if there's an issue that happens, like with symantec or whatever and there's been issues they've had to go and Reno revoke a bunch of has been security issues they've had to revoke a bunch of certificates and reissue them there's been things that have happened.
Michael Shannon: But for the most part they're very secure because they're using you know hardware security module secure data centers and all those things.
Michael Shannon: And by the way, it's also difficult if not impossible anymore to become a certificate authority, we already have too many.
Michael Shannon: already have too many.
Michael Shannon: Right, if you want to know go look at these certificates store either for your browser or in your operating system where you have root certificates for all these entities way too many.
Michael Shannon: But the it's the CA that signs this certificate which means they're using their private key to sign it.
Michael Shannon: And so the participants have to first get the root certificate of the CA which has their public key in it.
Michael Shannon: Or, they have to get the root certificate of a CA that trusts that CA.
Michael Shannon: And they're going to get the public keys of the participants, they want to communicate with in the form of a digital certificate now initially.
Michael Shannon: And remember, as I mentioned there's two algorithms involved in the X 509 v3 certificate okay to public key algorithms.
Michael Shannon: The subjects public key algorithm the subjects public key algorithm like some maybe elliptic curve 160 bit and then what was used to sign this certificate by the certificate authority.
Michael Shannon: Okay.
Michael Shannon: Now the initial exchange of user a and user see preferably that needs to be under some authenticated channel.
Michael Shannon: Fortunately, we have handshake protocol's and things like T lls that are going to provide that mechanism for us now with us, with a certificate authority, it may be an enterprise so you've got like a windows CA or red hat enterprise CA and it's providing this services for your enterprise.
Michael Shannon: Either way, whether it's a public CA or enterprise, there may be some hierarchy.
Michael Shannon: Some hierarchy, and this is kind of like DNS instead of the root DNS servers responding to queries you've cached.
Michael Shannon: Responsibility to down level DNS servers the same thing here whether it's a service provider like godaddy or thought or an enterprise, you may have intermediate ca's that are the ones directly enrolling with.
Michael Shannon: And, and the root CA it may be offline and then just brought online periodically.
Michael Shannon: But there is a hierarchy and in that hierarchy we call that a chain.
Michael Shannon: And the chain has to be in there, the chain of trust, these are two other fields in the certificate, it was issued to, and it was issued by and those issue to and issued by maybe intermediate ca's.
Michael Shannon: OK.
Michael Shannon: notice the second bullet point.
Michael Shannon: Alternatively, it is very common for certificate authorities to cross certify each other without some strict hierarchical relationship being in place that sentence means that it's not necessary that user a.
Michael Shannon: and users see have the same root certificate of the same certificate authority now it's very common that they will because your browser stores or your operating system stores many, many routes certificates.
Michael Shannon: But on the Internet.
Michael Shannon: it's not necessary, in every situation because they can cross certify each other now if it's an enterprise CA.
Michael Shannon: every participant every mobile device every laptop has to have the root certificate of your CA server of your enterprise CA server.
Michael Shannon: Now if it's an enterprise CA that you're setting up one of the things is interesting about, that is when when you're the administrator and you set up the server you decide how often the list of revoked serial numbers gets distributed.
Michael Shannon: it's the it's the administrator that decides that.
Michael Shannon: And you can say you know what every four hours every 24 hours every 72 hours you decide.
Michael Shannon: And the challenge, though with that certificate revocation list, which is the original method that's used is that if you decide to have a large window between when that list gets propagated.
Michael Shannon: That is a window of opportunity for an attacker.
Michael Shannon: Or if some certificate expires during the window it's still being used until the next revocation update.
Michael Shannon: So the CRM can be useful in an enterprise CA can still it's still used.
Michael Shannon: And even in some situations like legacy situations, you could use a back end radius server.
Michael Shannon: To say hey here's your CRM server you could use radius.
Michael Shannon: But on the Internet, this is just not practical so they came up with a protocol Oh, by the way, let me mention this.
Michael Shannon: The revocation list is a list of revoked serial numbers as as an as a administrator as a CIA administrator let's say enterprise pk I you could suspend a certificate.
Michael Shannon: Like somebody's going on a leave of absence, or they think they lost their device but they're not sure you can suspend it.
Michael Shannon: Now that's not going to be on the revocation list, but if you suspend it, you can reactivate it if you revoke it, you cannot reactivate it, you have to issue a new certificate and a new key pair and digitally sign that okay.
Michael Shannon: But you can suspend it.
Michael Shannon: But that's not the same thing as revoking.
Michael Shannon: So they came up with a protocol.
Michael Shannon: Because they want to send them as transactional like real time, like a real time database of revoked serial numbers, instead of some you know list that gets pushed and pulled at the whim of an administrator.
Michael Shannon: And this is what's used not always but, more often than not, on the Internet with web browsers and websites part of the problem is, this is not strictly enforced on the Internet.
Michael Shannon: Because here's the deal with vendors, with people who develop web browsers and all of the financial entities commercial entities that are on the World Wide Web they don't like things to get in the way.
Michael Shannon: between them and the consumer, they don't like overhead.
Michael Shannon: So this is still an ongoing.
Michael Shannon: initiative to use this.
Michael Shannon: method this transactional database.
Michael Shannon: It slows things down and entities on the Internet don't like that, so one thing you can do if you're using transport layer security is you can staple it.
Michael Shannon: This is a method to quickly determine whether the server certificate is valid okay so basically you staple it with a vendor response okay.
Michael Shannon: This is another common method that's used to speed up the process and it makes you know website vendors and the people who develop a browsers happier.
Michael Shannon: it's actually something that's done in the transport layer security protocol in as tms one point to transport layer security which we're going to talk about.
Michael Shannon: has two main protocols, it has the core record protocol, then it has a handshake protocol and the handshake protocol is the one that's really eXtensible.
Michael Shannon: whenever you see things like pls 1.1 1.2 1.3 if you ask yourself what is changing in each different iteration it's really adding eXtensible functionality to the handshake protocol and making it more secure.
Michael Shannon: In the handshake protocol okay.
Michael Shannon: Now, another thing that that's often done is, and this is interesting.
Michael Shannon: yeah baby.
Michael Shannon: yeah DNS is critical and.
Michael Shannon: which introduces some things we're going to talk about in application security but DNS is probably.
Michael Shannon: The when it comes to Internet security kind of the low hanging fruit, so we have protocols like DNS SEC that adds new.
Michael Shannon: records.
Michael Shannon: To DNS what a lot of what's what's happening, though going forward as far as DNS is concerned you're seeing a lot more managed security services, for example, like Dave and I.
Michael Shannon: Are laptops are provisioned laptops they use Cisco umbrella so when we use Internet DNS servers were using cisco's encrypted DNS servers so all of our queries are encrypted.
Michael Shannon: we're using Cisco umbrella, which is kind of a managed security service provider for our DNS services because it works in concert with our Cisco any connect mobility client.
Michael Shannon: So that that open DNS initiative DNS security DNS SEC, and what some large global providers are doing is they're not even using DNS at all.
Michael Shannon: they're using cloud providers and they're using what's called global acceleration so they're using IP version six any cast addressing.
Michael Shannon: they're just bypassing the whole donate domain name service, all together, and using any cast from IP version six so a lot of things are in the works to overcome the low hanging security weaknesses of DNS.
Michael Shannon: So one thing about a certificate authority it's interesting is that a certificate authority.
Michael Shannon: can issue a certificate for anybody for any domain for any subject, there is no police force out there really enforcing that now there are you know validation methods.
Michael Shannon: And you know there were traditionally you know, a company That said, we will do extended validation for you and we'll give you a green padlock.
Michael Shannon: They will show up in the browser when someone's using your certificate domain that shows you went through extended validation and that was kind of a trend, the problem was like one company have the monopoly on that so vendors kind of stopped doing that.
Michael Shannon: So a.
Michael Shannon: Certain because a CA can can technically issue a certificate for anybody an organization will generally pin.
Michael Shannon: The browser's certificate to their domains, and so google's a prime example.
Michael Shannon: As I mentioned it here in chrome 13 and beyond.
Michael Shannon: Any domain that Google owns is pinned so so no other certificate authority can issue a certificate for that Google domain.
Michael Shannon: And you would use it.
Michael Shannon: pinning can also be used for authentication through a secure channel pinning can also be used to bypass a tcp handshake.
Michael Shannon: Alright, so that's our our pk discussion we offer, we also have crypt analysis.
Michael Shannon: Sorry there's a big thread going on over here like my a boot camp Microsoft i'm trying to see if I need to address any of that all right.
Michael Shannon: A.
Michael Shannon: crypt analysis i'm already kind of alluded to this right, this is the other side of the coin right most weaknesses, though, are not found through brute force attacks that are found through implementation poor implementation.
Michael Shannon: A key management even can say a side channel attacks Okay, let me give an example of poor implementation.
Michael Shannon: When wireless came out in the late 90s, the Ai the 802 ieee 802 11 okay when it initially was released, there was no security.
Michael Shannon: It was just open authentication open authorization if your radio was in a range of the access point you were on and you were talking to other radios in your area open authentication Okay, the first level of security they added was called Web.
Michael Shannon: Not a good name because web stands for wired equivalent privacy and it wasn't it wasn't equivalent to a wired privacy, it was wishful thinking.
Michael Shannon: But the algorithm they used at the time was RC for in the late 90s RC for was a trustworthy algorithm.
Michael Shannon: Does was the trust, where the algorithm md five was a trust for the algorithm.
Michael Shannon: So it was the way that RC for was implemented in Web.
Michael Shannon: Specifically, with a 24 bit and visualization vector or a nonce there was in clear text that was Problem number one so web was.
Michael Shannon: quickly cracked not because of RC for, but because the way was implemented in Web.
Michael Shannon: Now eventually RC for because of computing power is not trustworthy you know public web server will use RC for is it sweet.
Michael Shannon: But there's key management vulnerabilities.
Michael Shannon: And there's implementation attacks.
Michael Shannon: classical crypt analysis mathematical analysis brute force analysis.
Michael Shannon: The most common types of implementation attack is a side channel attack okay in wireless a common side side channel attacks in wpa two is called crack.
Michael Shannon: kr Ak it got patched.
Michael Shannon: But crack was a side channel attacks, you had to have you had to have relative proximity to the access point to do a crack attack what's interesting is there was another attack it's a side channel attacks in wpa three.
Michael Shannon: called dragon blood.
Michael Shannon: And you know what the same guy.
Michael Shannon: The same guy found that vulnerability it's a side channel attack.
Michael Shannon: In it, it exploits the dragon fly handshake also quickly.
Michael Shannon: You know crack wasn't found until years down the line dragon blood was discovered right away because you in the world of wireless, you have the ieee the engineers right the put out the you know dot a B G and H whatever.
Michael Shannon: The International engineers and the wi fi alliance right well the wi fi alliance is always in a hurry to get the products on the shelves, or you know up to Amazon.
Michael Shannon: So they're more than happy to let us be the alpha and beta testers so they'll they'll put products out before the publications finalized.
Michael Shannon: So those are side channel attacks.
Michael Shannon: Another one if you could get access let's say to a to a to a device or like a smart card, you could actually measure the power consumption and you could determine with a power trace what a zero is and what a one is, and you can extrapolate the plain text information.
Michael Shannon: But aside channel attack usually needs some type of either physical access or proximity and to the access point.
Michael Shannon: social engineering is another type of attack, where you can trick people into giving you passwords and keys right, you can hoax you can make fake phone calls, you can send phishing emails right.
Michael Shannon: Another common way to break down a.
Michael Shannon: crypto system cool dragon Louise cool dragon.
Michael Shannon: Alright, so let's move on to our next topic and we're going to get into the identity and access management or IBM we've only it's not only got like 20 something slides i'm not going to blow through them, though.
Michael Shannon: Okay well we'll take up tomorrow, where you know, we need to be now, we do have, I do have a content on physical security.
Michael Shannon: So we're not going to get bogged down here, but just realize that when it comes to access control.
Michael Shannon: there's also physical access we use lighting we use these types of physical controls usually lighting and cameras.
Michael Shannon: cams work hand in hand right, because if you have cameras that are functioning at night, you want lighting and they both suffer from the same vulnerability, the dead spots right dead spots in your lighting dead spots in your cameras, we have barricades we have bollards.
Michael Shannon: They can be physical I mean it can be temporary, they can be you know permanent bollards can just simply be like a post.
Michael Shannon: You know, a cement pillar or bollards modern pop bollards can be raised up and down, they can have sensors in them, they can have cameras in them, they can be quite intelligent, we have fencing a varying heights.
Michael Shannon: electrified barbed wire interfacing out facing we have gates either wooden gates to come down, we have metal gates, we have tire shredders.
Michael Shannon: security guards signage all these types of physical access, controls we're going to talk more about those, but we want to, I want to I want you to forget them we talked about controlling access well we're also controlling physical access as well.
Michael Shannon: Air yapping systems man traps okay.
Michael Shannon: What makes a man trap, a man trap is at some point the person, I guess, we should call these people traps, but at some point the person is in a room or an enclosure and there's a locked door behind them and a locked door in front of them.
Michael Shannon: Just walking into a building and there's an area with maybe like a bulletproof window and a locked door if the door behind me is not locked that's not a man trap.
Michael Shannon: So I have to be be let in and then i'm in an area with cameras, maybe somebody behind a bulletproof glass window and have to be led into another area.
Michael Shannon: Maybe provide my credentials or a token or or passport or matt I may have to at that point in time, in that area.
Michael Shannon: With a security guard or a desk they'll take my picture they'll create a temporary badge and then I can get in whether.
Michael Shannon: it's a man trap area or not security guards may be involved in those types of temporary credentials and you have to wait for an escort whatever locking mechanisms biometrics.
Michael Shannon: alarms sensors and also under physical our environmental controls and that would include fire prevention, detection and depression, so it goes without saying that under access.
Michael Shannon: Controlling access, we cannot forget physical I mean when we say penetration test often.
Michael Shannon: We just automatically jump to the fact that the pen test is done against systems and applications and services, but there can be physical.
Michael Shannon: Access penetration testing as well now we're going to switch gears and talk about controlling physical access and the different mechanisms that we use for identity and access management or what we call ids identity management.
Michael Shannon: Now, with our security models were typically in looking at subjects and objects.
Michael Shannon: When we look at these various models subjects and objects, but realize that a subject is not always a person and an object can be physical or it can be logical.
Michael Shannon: The subject can be a person, it can be an n P, a non person entity, it can be a robot or some robotics it could be an embedded device an iot device that can be a big hub.
Michael Shannon: Right.
Michael Shannon: So the subject anything that needs to take action on an object, so we have to think broader okay.
Michael Shannon: So uh.
Michael Shannon: One of the things that when that question.
Michael Shannon: Is a great question about physical access control when it comes to the cloud.
Michael Shannon: we're going to talk about cloud computing, but if you go to aws.
Michael Shannon: But Amazon COM.
Michael Shannon: blogs.
Michael Shannon: Security.
Michael Shannon: And search for.
Michael Shannon: A.
Michael Shannon: Data Center.
Michael Shannon: And this is just for this question coming up in the chat we're going to talk about this new cloud security.
Michael Shannon: But cloud data centers are highly secure.
Michael Shannon: highly secure they have massive amount of.
Michael Shannon: resources to secure data centers, but if you go to the security blog of aws they have they'll take you to a video and a site that shows you the what they go through to protect their data centers.
Michael Shannon: The types of stringent controls at their data centers.
Michael Shannon: If netflix can trust an aws data Center with their next season of stranger things.
Michael Shannon: We can have a pretty high degree of competence in aws or Google or azure data centers to protect our assets and our data.
Michael Shannon: So.
Michael Shannon: we're going to talk about sick tomorrow we're going to come back we're going to talk about some security models.
Michael Shannon: And we're going to begin with a what's referred to as a mandatory access control model to provide confidentiality bell up a doula is not somebody hyphenated name.
Michael Shannon: Okay, this is not like Steve bell up a doula okay it's two different people bell and lapa doula, and this is the first mathematical model.
Michael Shannon: That uses multi level security that uses a state machine and information flow modeling all these different.
Michael Shannon: techniques in a mandatory access control environment for confidentiality, this is what's used by government agencies military military installations.
Michael Shannon: Government contractors places like that there's there's no discretion, there is a board or a committee that puts in this state machine in place.
Michael Shannon: All the rules are defined, and every state between the subject and object and transitions are known and identified and accounted for and usually these are accounted for using some type of lattice or matrix.
Michael Shannon: And there's there can be flexibility built in, but it must be determined at the outset, this is not something you can just.
Michael Shannon: ad hoc escalate privileges if it's not allowed in the model by the original design by the committee or the team so once you once you put the model in place.
Michael Shannon: At some point three months down one of the subjects, regardless of how high they are in the hierarchy can't just decide okay i'm going to add my discretion i'm going to allow somebody at the secret level to get access to the top secret level if it's not built into the model.
Michael Shannon: The person to the secret level has to get promoted.
Michael Shannon: No other options.
Michael Shannon: period so we're going to talk about when we get back tomorrow mandatory access control models discretionary role based rule based and access.
Michael Shannon: Based which are really critical in a zero trust environment a zero trust environment they're going to gravitate towards MAC models or attribute based access control models okay so we'll stop here will take up here tomorrow and so i'm going to go ahead and stop the recording.